Add EIP-5170: Authenticity Proofs for Token Client Scripts (#5170)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5170.md

---
eip: 5170
title: Asserting authenticity of Client Script for Token Contracts

> description: Provide a method to assert and revoke the authenticity of an ERC5169 client script for token contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Provide a method to assert and revoke the authenticity of an EIP-5169 client script for token contracts
```
```suggestion
description: Provide a method to assert and revoke the authenticity of an ERC5169 client script for token contracts
```

author:  Weiwu (@weiwu-zhang), Tore Frederiksen (@jot2re)
discussions-to: 
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-05-03

> requires: 5169

Reviewer: Since this is very much linked to that EIP, I would recommend you merge this EIP with that one. Technically, this EIP cannot be merged until all EIPs in the `requires` list reach final.

Reviewer 2: My general feeling is that if an EIP *can* be split into multiple EIPs it *should* be split into multiple EIPs.  If this is an extension that could be split out, I think that is the correct way forward.

> Technically, this EIP cannot be merged until all EIPs in the requires list reach final.

The rule is that an EIP can't pass the status of any EIP it depends on.  So if 5169 is in review, this can be in Draft or Review but not Last Call of Final.  This allows someone to walk multiple EIPs through the process at the same time when they have a dependency association between them.

---

### Abstract

> This ERC describes how to assert the authenticity of the script related to some token or smart contract, regardless of how the script was obtained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP describes how to assert the authenticity of the script related to some token or smart contract, regardless of how the script was obtained.
```
```suggestion
This ERC describes how to assert the authenticity of the script related to some token or smart contract, regardless of how the script was obtained.
```

### Motivation

> Often NFT authors want to provide some user functionality to their tokens through client scripts. This should be done safely, without opening the user to potential scams. Refer to ERC 5169 examples of such scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often NFT authors want to provide some user functionality to their tokens through client scripts. This should be done safely, without opening the user to potential scams. Refer to [EIP-5169](./eip-5169.md) examples of such scripts.
```
```suggestion
Often NFT authors want to provide some user functionality to their tokens through client scripts. This should be done safely, without opening the user to potential scams. Refer to ERC 5169 examples of such scripts.
```

> Although ERC 5169 specified a way to obtain a set of client scripts through URI, it is inapplicable for token contracts that was issued before the creation of ERC 5169. Furthermore, it lack the finess to address situations such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although [EIP-5169](./eip-5169.md) specified a way to obtain a set of client scripts through URI, it is inapplicable for token contracts that were issued before the creation of [EIP-5169](./eip-5169.md). Furthermore, it lacks the finesse to address situations such as
```
```suggestion
Although ERC 5169 specified a way to obtain a set of client scripts through URI, it is inapplicable for token contracts that was issued before the creation of ERC 5169. Furthermore, it lack the finess to address situations such as
```

> - a smart contract might have different scripts for different environments or use-cases. Take a subway token as an example. It might invoke a minimal script at the POS to be sent through NFC (Internet might be slow or inaccessible underground), while advanced functions for user retention, such as rewarding user mascot NFT for continued use, or carbon credit for buying carbon-neutral airfare.
> - in a specific use case, a token's script is often localized, and it doesn't make sense to download and load all language translations.
> - a specific use-case might be compatible with only a specific version of the token's script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A smart contract might have different scripts for different environments or use-cases. Take a subway token as an example. It might invoke a minimal script at the POS to be sent through NFC (Internet might be slow or inaccessible underground), while advanced functions for user retention, such as rewarding user mascot NFT for continued use, or carbon credit for buying carbon-neutral airfare.
- In a specific use case, a token's script is often localized, and it doesn't make sense to download and load all language translations.
- A specific use case might be compatible with only a specific version of the token's script.
```
```suggestion
- a smart contract might have different scripts for different environments or use-cases. Take a subway token as an example. It might invoke a minimal script at the POS to be sent through NFC (Internet might be slow or inaccessible underground), while advanced functions for user retention, such as rewarding user mascot NFT for continued use, or carbon credit for buying carbon-neutral airfare.
- in a specific use case, a token's script is often localized, and it doesn't make sense to download and load all language translations.
- a specific use-case might be compatible with only a specific version of the token's script.
```

> ERC 5169 returns an all-purpose, one-version of script for use on the client side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[EIP-5169](./eip-5169.md) returns an all-purpose, one-version of script for use on the client side.
```
```suggestion
ERC 5169 returns an all-purpose, one-version of script for use on the client side.
```

This ERC offers a way to assert authenticity of such client scripts disregarding how it is obtained, and can work with smart contracts *prior* to the publication of this ERC.

### Overview

> Although the *token/smart contract author* and the *client script author* can be the same person/team, we will assume they are different people in this ERC, and the case that they are the same person/team can be implied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the *token/smart contract author* and the *client script author* can be the same person/team, we will assume they are different people in this EIP, and the case that they are the same person/team can be implied.
```
```suggestion
Although the *token/smart contract author* and the *client script author* can be the same person/team, we will assume they are different people in this ERC, and the case that they are the same person/team can be implied.
```

2. The *smart contract author*, using the *smart contract deployment key*, signs a certificate, including expiry info and whose subject public key info contains the *script signing key's* associated *verification key*.

3. Any client script which is deployed gets signed by the *script signing key* and with a certificate attached.

This process is a deliberate copy of the TLS certification, based on X.509, which has stood the test of time. 

The authenticity of the client script may be obtained through the `scriptURI()` function call, as in ERC5169, or supplied separately by the use-cases. However, this ERC is applicable to any code or data that is signed, and a client must validate the signature in the way specified in this ERC. In real life use-cases, the client scripts can be either supplied by aforementioned `scriptURI()` or offered to the client (wallet) in anyway the wallet can work with, even through NFC connections or QR code.

### Implementation

Some possible methods of implementation: Note: we cannot deliver a completely off-line solution unless a hosting app can pre-verify the *smart contract deployment key* address. 

> 1. Simplest (assuming internet connection and written *after* publication of this ERC):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Simplest (assuming internet connection and written *after* publication of this EIP):
```
```suggestion
1. Simplest (assuming internet connection and written *after* publication of this ERC):
```

- If [revocation option 1](#Revocation) is used, then `extensions` MUST also include `cRLDistributionPoints` (see RFC 5280 4.2.1.13) which MUST contain at least one `distributionPoint` element, containing a `fullName` element. The `fullName` MUST be a single `IA5String` for a `uniformResourceIdentifier` which is an URI pointing to a Certificate Revocation List.

- The `notBefore` and `notAfter` field SHOULD be set to limit lifetime of the *script signing key* reasonably.

- The `version` field SHOULD be grater than 2, to indicate that the certificate is **not** a regular X.509 certificate.

We require the signature to be done as a JWS according to [RFC 7515](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515). Concretely we have the following requirements to the elements contained in the JWS:

- The `x5u` header MUST be included and stored as part of the `JWS Protected Header`. Furthermore, its URI MUST point to the X.509 certificate of the *script signing key*.

- The `payload` member MUST be exactly the URL base64 encoding of the client script *or* an a Keccak of the client script.

#### Format to attach signature

> This ERC does not specify how a wallet client obtains the signature as this can be realized in multiple ways. The simplest of which is to embed the client script in the `payload` of the JWS, as discussed above. This ensure that only a single URI is needed in order to locate both the client script, its signature and the signing key certificate. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP does not specify how a wallet client obtains the signature as this can be realized in multiple ways. The simplest of which is to embed the client script in the `payload` of the JWS, as discussed above. This ensure that only a single URI is needed in order to locate both the client script, its signature and the signing key certificate. 
```
```suggestion
This ERC does not specify how a wallet client obtains the signature as this can be realized in multiple ways. The simplest of which is to embed the client script in the `payload` of the JWS, as discussed above. This ensure that only a single URI is needed in order to locate both the client script, its signature and the signing key certificate. 
```

---
eip: 5170

> title: Asserting authenticity of Client Script for Token Contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Authenticity Proofs for Token Client Scripts
```
Required: The title is too long. The title I have here is exactly 44 characters (the maximum)

description: Provide a method to assert and revoke the authenticity of an EIP-5169 client script for token contracts
author:  Weiwu (@weiwu-zhang), Tore Frederiksen (@jot2re)

> discussions-to: 

Reviewer: Required: Make a link on Ethereum Magicians

[EIP-5169](./eip-5169.md) returns an all-purpose, one-version of script for use on the client side.

This EIP offers a way to assert the authenticity of such client scripts disregarding how it is obtained, and can work with smart contracts *prior* to the publication of this ERC.

### Overview

Although the *token/smart contract author* and the *client script author* can be the same person/team, we will assume they are different people in this EIP, and the case that they are the same person/team can be implied.

The steps needed to ensure script authenticity can be summarized as follows:

1. The *script author* creates a *script signing key*, which has an associates *verification key address*.

2. The *smart contract author*, using the *smart contract deployment key*, signs a certificate, including expiry info and whose subject public key info contains the *script signing key's* associated *verification key*.

3. Any client script which is deployed gets signed by the *script signing key* and with a certificate attached.

This process is a deliberate copy of the TLS certification, based on X.509, which has stood the test of time. 

> The authenticity of the client script may be obtained through the `scriptURI()` function call, as in ERC5169, or supplied separately by the use-cases. However, this ERC is applicable to any code or data that is signed, and a client must validate the signature in the way specified in this ERC. In real-life use-cases, the client scripts can be either supplied by the aforementioned `scriptURI()` or offered to the client (wallet) in any way the wallet can work, even through NFC connections or QR codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authenticity of the client script may be obtained through the `scriptURI()` function call, as in EIP-5169, or supplied separately by the use-cases. However, this ERC is applicable to any code or data that is signed, and a client must validate the signature in the way specified in this ERC. In real-life use-cases, the client scripts can be either supplied by the aforementioned `scriptURI()` or offered to the client (wallet) in any way the wallet can work, even through NFC connections or QR codes.
```

- 8: current time is within `notBefore` and `notAfter`.
- 9: if the *script signing key* is still valid according to the certificate *and* the script has been signed correctly by the same key, allow user to interact with the token contract(s) defined in the script via the script interface.

2. Example script applied to contract published before this EIP:

- User scans NFC beacon on their mobile.
- Obtains payload with an app intent (eg ticketing app) containing a URL to a JWS object.
- JWS Object is fetched along with the script pointed to from the JWS object.
- Determine origin contract from script.
- Obtain the owner of the script query `owner()` or JWS object provides contract creation transaction the hosting app can validate and obtain *smart contract deployment key* address.
- Continue from `3:` above, skipping `6:` as we already have the script.
- If the *script signing key* is still valid according to the certificate *and* the script has been signed correctly by the same key, allow user to interact with the token contract(s) defined in the script via the script interface.

> ### Specification

Reviewer 3: ERCs usually specify an interface or behaviors in the specifications and then provide some reference implementation. Can you update the specification and implementation sections accordingly?
